README.md, before:

# Apex Utilities

## Desctiption

This repository contains a number of reusable components that can be used accross Apex development projects. You can pick and chose which components will be useful to your project

## Installation

The simplest installation option would be to install the unlocked package using one of the following links

1. [Production](https://login.salesforce.com/packaging/installPackage.apexp?p0=04t1t0000034uhQAAQ)
2. [Sandbox](https://test.salesforce.com/packaging/installPackage.apexp?p0=04t1t0000034uhQAAQ)

Alternatively this can be done in the command line using `sfdx force:package:install --package 04t1t0000034uhQAAQ`

## Components

- **Assert**:
  - Description: The assert class is a utility to help in test classes, any additional assert functions can be added in here as static methods, this class is annotated with @isTest as it is a mostly untestable due to the assert statement inside it.
  - Usage: `Assert.pageMessage('The page message you wish to assert')`
- **Logger**:
  - Description: This class is used to control logging in the system, it provides an adapter so logging can be easily swapped out whenever needed, within the class it has provided a wrapper for the debug logs to allow logs written to this and a logger for the page messages.
  - Usage:

```java
Logger log = new Logger(new DebugLogAdapter());
log.warn('A warning is here');
try {
    insert new Account();
} catch (DmlException exceptionToHandle) {
    log.error(exceptionToHandle);
}
```

- **BulkLogObjectAdapter**:
  - Description: This class allows logging against an sobject defined in the system. This is defined as a singleton so that logs can be inserted once during a transaction
  - Usage:

```java
Logger log = new Logger(BulkLogObjectAdapter.getInstance('Integration'));
log.warn('A warning message');
BulkLogObjectAdapter.writeLogs();
```

- **ApexProfiler**:
  - Description: This class is used by the logging framework to log out the limits in apex when limits are approched
  - Usage: See `BulkLogObjectAdapter` for details
- **LoggedSchedulable**:
  - Description: This is a wrapper arround the standard `Schedulable` class which utilises the logging framework to remove the need for users to remember to call the write logs at the end of the class
  - Usage: Works in a similar way to how `Schedulable` works
- **LoggedQueueable**:
  - Description:This is a wrapper arround the standard `Queueable` class which utilises the logging framework to remove the need for users to remember to call the write logs at the end of the class
  - Usage: Works in a similar way to how `Queueable` works
- **QueueableScheduler**:
  - Description: This class handles scheduling of queuable classes, this extends the `LoggedQueueable` and simply takes in a queuable and will then run it
  - Usage:

```java
QueueableScheduler scheduler = new QueueableScheduler(new MyQueueable());
scheduler.scheduleDaily();
```

- **DateUtils**:
  - Description: This class is used as a replacement for the standard `Date.today()` and `Datetime.now()` methods, which will allow for the current date / datetime to be set dynamically in test classes, which can help for any time / date dependant actions.
  - Usage: See `DateUtilsTest` class
- **StringBuilder**:
  - Description: This class is intended to be similar to the java StringBuilder, it allows strings to be dynamically constructed but only assigned at the point that it needs to be.
  - Usage:

```java
StringBuilder text = new StringBuilder();
for (Integer i = 0; i < 10; i++) {
    text.append(String.valueOf(i));
}
System.debug(text.toString());
```

- **CsvBuilder**:
  - Description: This class is used to build a Csv dynamically, it is a sub-class to the StringBuilder
  - Usage: See `CsvBuilderTest` class
- **SchemaFacade**:
  - Description: This is a facade for the schema describe functions to make accessing the schema much easier within apex. It is implemented as a sigleton so that it can perform some form of cacheing, this probably isn't nessisary as I think salesforce implements cacheing on the schema methods anyway, but this is just to be safe
  - Usage:

```java
SchemaFacade schema = SchemaFacade.getInstance();
DescribeSObjectResult accountDescribe = schema.getDescribe('Account');
System.debug(accountDescribe.getName());

DescribeFieldResult fieldDescribe = schema.getFieldDescribe('Account', 'Name');
System.debug(fieldDescribe.getName());
```

- **SObjectWrapper**:
  - Description: This is a wrapper around the SObject class that its primary function is to be able to retrieve parent fields dynamically
  - Usage:

```java
Account myContact = [SELECT Account.Name FROM Contact LIMIT 1];
SObjectWrapper wrappedContact = new SObjectWrapper(myContact);
String accountName = (String) wrappedContact.get('Account.Name');
```

- **SecureSObjectWrapper**:
  - Description: This is a wrapper around the SObject class that will enforce FLS when accessing and setting fields on the SObject record
  - Usage: See SecureSObjectWrapperTest for examples
- **DisplayTypeParser**:
  - Description: This is a class that can be used to parse field values, if the target field is known this can be used to ensure the field value is correct
  - Usage:

```java
DescribeFieldResult field = Account.NumberOfEmployees.getDescribe(); // this would be more dynamic
Parsable parser = new DisplayTypeParser(field.getType());

Account newAccount = new Account();
newAccount.put(field.getName(), parser.parse('100'));
```

- **AbstractSObjectTestFactory**:
  - Description: This is a factory class that can be used in test classes to generate sobject test data
  - Usage: see `AccountTestFactory` for details
- **DatabaseUtils**:
  - Description: This class is a collection of classes that are used on the Database class
  - Usage: See `DatabaseUtils` for details
- **ConfigurationManager**:
  - Description: This uses a custom setting underneath that will allow callers to programatically disable triggers, workflows, process builders and validation rules through code. This requires all new configurations to include a catch as the first line so that they can all be turned off. If you are using some form of a trigger framework the catch can be added in there so that this doesn't need to be remembered by all developers when adding new triggers. The class is mostly useful for turning off automation while setting up test data in test classes so that you can fully test your classes
  - Usage:

```java
// inside a test setup method
ConfigurationManager.turnAutomationsOff();
insert new Account(Name = 'Test');
// set up some other test data
ConfigurationManager.turnAutomationsOn();
```

- **DeletionValidator**:

  - Description: This class can be used to block deletion on objects that arent covered by profile permissions (eg ContentVersion). This can then be set utilising the Configuration\_\_c custom setting
  - Usage: A before delete trigger should be created on any object that the deletion should be blocked on with this class as the initial triggerable action.

- **Trigger Framework**:
  - Description: This trigger framework focuses around single trigger per object per action, each trigger will be in the format `{ObjectName}{Action}` (eg `AccountBeforeInsert`). Each trigger will call directly into the `TriggerHandler.performAllActions()` method passing in a list of actions you wish to perform.
  - Usage:

```java
trigger OpportunityBeforeInsert on Opportunity (before insert) {
    TriggerHandler.performAllActions(
        new List<Triggerable>{
            new MyFirstAction(),
            new MySecondAction()
        },
        Trigger.new,
        Trigger.oldMap
    );
}
```

## TODO

- add versioning scripts, that replaces the install link
- Add something that generates the readme based on the class headers
- add build tasks to push of feature branches and creates the package before deploying to master

Commit message:

Updating the version numbers for all apex classes and adding in the new SObjectRecordTypes class that makes interacting with record types a little easier

README.md, after:

# Apex Utilities

## Desctiption

This repository contains a number of reusable components that can be used accross Apex development projects. You can pick and chose which components will be useful to your project

## Installation

The simplest installation option would be to install the unlocked package using one of the following links

1. [Production](https://login.salesforce.com/packaging/installPackage.apexp?p0=04t1t0000034uhVAAQ)
2. [Sandbox](https://test.salesforce.com/packaging/installPackage.apexp?p0=04t1t0000034uhVAAQ)

Alternatively this can be done in the command line using `sfdx force:package:install --package 04t1t0000034uhVAAQ`

## Components

- **Assert**:
  - Description: The assert class is a utility to help in test classes, any additional assert functions can be added in here as static methods, this class is annotated with @isTest as it is a mostly untestable due to the assert statement inside it.
  - Usage: `Assert.pageMessage('The page message you wish to assert')`
- **Logger**:
  - Description: This class is used to control logging in the system, it provides an adapter so logging can be easily swapped out whenever needed, within the class it has provided a wrapper for the debug logs to allow logs written to this and a logger for the page messages.
  - Usage:

```java
Logger log = new Logger(new DebugLogAdapter());
log.warn('A warning is here');
try {
    insert new Account();
} catch (DmlException exceptionToHandle) {
    log.error(exceptionToHandle);
}
```

- **BulkLogObjectAdapter**:
  - Description: This class allows logging against an sobject defined in the system. This is defined as a singleton so that logs can be inserted once during a transaction
  - Usage:

```java
Logger log = new Logger(BulkLogObjectAdapter.getInstance('Integration'));
log.warn('A warning message');
BulkLogObjectAdapter.writeLogs();
```

- **ApexProfiler**:
  - Description: This class is used by the logging framework to log out the limits in apex when limits are approched
  - Usage: See `BulkLogObjectAdapter` for details
- **LoggedSchedulable**:
  - Description: This is a wrapper arround the standard `Schedulable` class which utilises the logging framework to remove the need for users to remember to call the write logs at the end of the class
  - Usage: Works in a similar way to how `Schedulable` works
- **LoggedQueueable**:
  - Description:This is a wrapper arround the standard `Queueable` class which utilises the logging framework to remove the need for users to remember to call the write logs at the end of the class
  - Usage: Works in a similar way to how `Queueable` works
- **QueueableScheduler**:
  - Description: This class handles scheduling of queuable classes, this extends the `LoggedQueueable` and simply takes in a queuable and will then run it
  - Usage:

```java
QueueableScheduler scheduler = new QueueableScheduler(new MyQueueable());
scheduler.scheduleDaily();
```

- **DateUtils**:
  - Description: This class is used as a replacement for the standard `Date.today()` and `Datetime.now()` methods, which will allow for the current date / datetime to be set dynamically in test classes, which can help for any time / date dependant actions.
  - Usage: See `DateUtilsTest` class
- **StringBuilder**:
  - Description: This class is intended to be similar to the java StringBuilder, it allows strings to be dynamically constructed but only assigned at the point that it needs to be.
  - Usage:

```java
StringBuilder text = new StringBuilder();
for (Integer i = 0; i < 10; i++) {
    text.append(String.valueOf(i));
}
System.debug(text.toString());
```

- **CsvBuilder**:
  - Description: This class is used to build a Csv dynamically, it is a sub-class to the StringBuilder
  - Usage: See `CsvBuilderTest` class
- **SchemaFacade**:
  - Description: This is a facade for the schema describe functions to make accessing the schema much easier within apex. It is implemented as a sigleton so that it can perform some form of cacheing, this probably isn't nessisary as I think salesforce implements cacheing on the schema methods anyway, but this is just to be safe
  - Usage:

```java
SchemaFacade schema = SchemaFacade.getInstance();
DescribeSObjectResult accountDescribe = schema.getDescribe('Account');
System.debug(accountDescribe.getName());

DescribeFieldResult fieldDescribe = schema.getFieldDescribe('Account', 'Name');
System.debug(fieldDescribe.getName());
```

- **SObjectWrapper**:
  - Description: This is a wrapper around the SObject class that its primary function is to be able to retrieve parent fields dynamically
  - Usage:

```java
Account myContact = [SELECT Account.Name FROM Contact LIMIT 1];
SObjectWrapper wrappedContact = new SObjectWrapper(myContact);
String accountName = (String) wrappedContact.get('Account.Name');
```

- **SecureSObjectWrapper**:
  - Description: This is a wrapper around the SObject class that will enforce FLS when accessing and setting fields on the SObject record
  - Usage: See SecureSObjectWrapperTest for examples
- **DisplayTypeParser**:
  - Description: This is a class that can be used to parse field values, if the target field is known this can be used to ensure the field value is correct
  - Usage:

```java
DescribeFieldResult field = Account.NumberOfEmployees.getDescribe(); // this would be more dynamic
Parsable parser = new DisplayTypeParser(field.getType());

Account newAccount = new Account();
newAccount.put(field.getName(), parser.parse('100'));
```

- **AbstractSObjectTestFactory**:
  - Description: This is a factory class that can be used in test classes to generate sobject test data
  - Usage: see `AccountTestFactory` for details
- **DatabaseUtils**:
  - Description: This class is a collection of classes that are used on the Database class
  - Usage: See `DatabaseUtils` for details
- **ConfigurationManager**:
  - Description: This uses a custom setting underneath that will allow callers to programatically disable triggers, workflows, process builders and validation rules through code. This requires all new configurations to include a catch as the first line so that they can all be turned off. If you are using some form of a trigger framework the catch can be added in there so that this doesn't need to be remembered by all developers when adding new triggers. The class is mostly useful for turning off automation while setting up test data in test classes so that you can fully test your classes
  - Usage:

```java
// inside a test setup method
ConfigurationManager.turnAutomationsOff();
insert new Account(Name = 'Test');
// set up some other test data
ConfigurationManager.turnAutomationsOn();
```

- **DeletionValidator**:

  - Description: This class can be used to block deletion on objects that arent covered by profile permissions (eg ContentVersion). This can then be set utilising the Configuration\_\_c custom setting
  - Usage: A before delete trigger should be created on any object that the deletion should be blocked on with this class as the initial triggerable action.

- **Trigger Framework**:
  - Description: This trigger framework focuses around single trigger per object per action, each trigger will be in the format `{ObjectName}{Action}` (eg `AccountBeforeInsert`). Each trigger will call directly into the `TriggerHandler.performAllActions()` method passing in a list of actions you wish to perform.
  - Usage:

```java
trigger OpportunityBeforeInsert on Opportunity (before insert) {
    TriggerHandler.performAllActions(
        new List<Triggerable>{
            new MyFirstAction(),
            new MySecondAction()
        },
        Trigger.new,
        Trigger.oldMap
    );
}
```
- **SObjectRecordTypes**
  - Description: This class can be used as an interface with interacting with an SObjects record types, this is essentially abstracting away some of the details that you can get to from the Schema classes.
  - Usage:

```java
SObjectRecordTypes opportunityRecordTypes = new SObjectRecordTypes('Opportunity');
Id bigSaleRecordTypeId = opportunityRecordTypes.getRecordTypeId('Big_Sale')
```

## TODO

- add versioning scripts, that replaces the install link
- Add something that generates the readme based on the class headers
- add build tasks to push of feature branches and creates the package before deploying to master
